packages/enhanced/README.md, before:

# Flutter Widget from HTML

[![Flutter](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/actions/workflows/flutter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/actions/workflows/flutter.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html)
[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_widget_from_html.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html)

Flutter package to render html as widgets that supports hyperlink, image, audio, video, iframe
and [70+ other tags](https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html).

| [Live demo](https://demo.fwfh.dev/#/helloworld)                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen1.gif) | ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen2.gif) | ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen3.gif) |

This package supports most common HTML tags for easy usage.
If you don't want to include all of its dependencies in your build, it's possible to use [flutter_widget_from_html_core](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core) with a subset of the mixins to control your app size:

- [fwfh_cached_network_image](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_cached_network_image) for optimized image rendering
- [fwfh_chewie](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_chewie) for VIDEO support
- [fwfh_just_audio](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_just_audio) for AUDIO support
- [fwfh_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_svg) for SVG support
- [fwfh_url_launcher](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_url_launcher) to launch URLs
- [fwfh_webview](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_webview) for IFRAME support

## Getting Started

Add this to your app's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter_widget_from_html: ^0.14.3
```

### Platform specific configuration

#### iOS

This package uses `just_audio` to play audio and this dependency uses a microphone API.
By default, the App Store requires a usage description which can be skipped by editing your `ios/Podfile`.
See the detailed instruction on [its pub.dev page](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio#ios).

If you don't need `AUDIO` tag support (e.g. your HTML never has that tag), it may be better to switch to
the core package and use it with a subset of the mixins. See [Extensibility](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core#extensibility) for more details.

## Usage

Then you have to import the package with:

```dart
import 'package:flutter_widget_from_html/flutter_widget_from_html.dart';
```

And use `HtmlWidget` where appropriate:

```dart
HtmlWidget(
  // the first parameter (`html`) is required
  '''
  <h3>Heading</h3>
  <p>
    A paragraph with <strong>strong</strong>, <em>emphasized</em>
    and <span style="color: red">colored</span> text.
  </p>
  ''',

  // all other parameters are optional, a few notable params:

  // specify custom styling for an element
  // see supported inline styling below
  customStylesBuilder: (element) {
    if (element.classes.contains('foo')) {
      return {'color': 'red'};
    }

    return null;
  },

  customWidgetBuilder: (element) {
    if (element.attributes['foo'] == 'bar') {
      // render a custom block widget that takes the full width
      return FooBarWidget();
    }

    if (element.attributes['fizz'] == 'buzz') {
      // render a custom widget inline with surrounding text
      return InlineCustomWidget(
        child: FizzBuzzWidget(),
      )
    }

    return null;
  },

  // this callback will be triggered when user taps a link
  onTapUrl: (url) => print('tapped $url'),

  // select the render mode for HTML body
  // by default, a simple `Column` is rendered
  // consider using `ListView` or `SliverList` for better performance
  renderMode: RenderMode.column,

  // set the default styling for text
  textStyle: TextStyle(fontSize: 14),
),
```

## Features

### HTML tags

Below tags are the ones that have special meaning / styling, all other tags will be parsed as text.
[Compare between Flutter rendering and browser's.](https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html)

- A: underline, theme accent color
  - Scroll to anchor
  - Launch URL via [url_launcher](https://pub.dev/packages/url_launcher) with base URL resolver
- AUDIO via [just_audio](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio)
- H1/H2/H3/H4/H5/H6
- IFRAME via [webview_flutter](https://pub.dev/packages/webview_flutter)
- IMG with support for asset (`asset://`), data uri, local file (`file://`) and network image via [cached_network_image](https://pub.dev/packages/cached_network_image). Additional .svg file support via [flutter_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_svg).
- LI/OL/UL with support for:
  - Attributes: `type`, `start`, `reversed`
  - Inline style `list-style-type` values: `lower-alpha`, `upper-alpha`, `lower-latin`, `upper-latin`, `circle`, `decimal`, `disc`, `lower-roman`, `upper-roman`, `square`
- TABLE/CAPTION/THEAD/TBODY/TFOOT/TR/TD/TH with support for:
  - TABLE attributes `border`, `cellpadding`, `cellspacing`
  - TD/TH attributes `colspan`, `rowspan`, `valign`
- SVG via [flutter_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_svg)
- VIDEO via [chewie](https://pub.dev/packages/chewie)
- ABBR, ACRONYM, ADDRESS, ARTICLE, ASIDE, B, BIG, BLOCKQUOTE, BR, CENTER, CITE, CODE,
  DD, DEL, DETAILS, DFN, DIV, DL, DT, EM, FIGCAPTION, FIGURE, FONT, FOOTER, HEADER, HR, I, INS,
  KBD, MAIN, MARK, NAV, NOSCRIPT, P, PRE, Q, RP, RT, RUBY, S, SAMP, SECTION, SMALL,
  STRIKE, STRONG, STYLE, SUB, SUMMARY, SUP, TT, U, VAR
- Everything with screenshot: https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html
- [Try with fwfh.dev](https://try.fwfh.dev)

These tags and their contents will be ignored:

- SCRIPT
- STYLE

### Attributes

- align: center/end/justify/left/right/start/-moz-center/-webkit-center
- dir: auto/ltr/rtl

### Inline stylings

- background: 1 value (color)
  - background-color
- border: 3 values (width style color), 2 values (width style) or 1 value (width)
  - border-top, border-right, border-bottom, border-left
  - border-block-start, border-block-end
  - border-inline-start, border-inline-end
- border-radius: 4, 3, 2 or 1 values with slash support (e.g. `10px / 20px`)
  - border-top-left-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-top-right-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-bottom-right-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-bottom-left-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
- color: hex values, `rgb()`, `hsl()` or named colors
- direction (similar to `dir` attribute)
- font-family
- font-size: absolute (e.g. `xx-large`), relative (`larger`, `smaller`) or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
- font-style: italic/normal
- font-weight: bold/normal/100..900
- line-height: `normal`, number or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
- margin: 4 values, 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - margin-top, margin-right, margin-bottom, margin-left
  - margin-block-start, margin-block-end
  - margin-inline-start, margin-inline-end
- padding: 4 values, 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom, padding-left
  - padding-block-start, padding-block-end
  - padding-inline-start, padding-inline-end
- vertical-align: baseline/top/bottom/middle/sub/super
- text-align (similar to `align` attribute)
- text-decoration
  - text-decoration-color
  - text-decoration-line: line-through/none/overline/underline
  - text-decoration-style: dotted/dashed/double/solid
  - text-decoration-thickness, text-decoration-width: values in `%` only
- text-overflow: clip/ellipsis. Note: `text-overflow: ellipsis` should be used in conjuntion with `max-lines` or `-webkit-line-clamp` for better result.
- white-space: pre/normal/nowrap
- Sizing: `auto` or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
  - width, max-width, min-width
  - height, max-height, min-height

## Extensibility

The [core](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core) package implements widget building logic with high testing coverage to ensure correctness. It tries to render an optimal tree by using `RichText` with specific `TextStyle`, merging text spans together, showing images in sized box, etc. The idea is to build a solid foundation for apps to customize.

See [the extensibility document](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/blob/v0.14.2/docs/extensibility.md) for detailed information.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/daohoangson" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>

Commit message:

Improve table support for wide columns (#1073)
Also:

* Use fair width if table cell's min width couldn't be measured
* Add support for horizontal scroll view
* Force `width: 100%` for align=center
* [core] v0.14.4+1
* [enhanced] v0.14.4+1

packages/enhanced/README.md, after:

# Flutter Widget from HTML

[![Flutter](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/actions/workflows/flutter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/actions/workflows/flutter.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html)
[![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_widget_from_html.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html)

Flutter package to render html as widgets that supports hyperlink, image, audio, video, iframe
and [70+ other tags](https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html).

| [Live demo](https://demo.fwfh.dev/#/helloworld)                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                     |                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen1.gif) | ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen2.gif) | ![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/0001010/packages/enhanced/example/HelloWorldScreen3.gif) |

This package supports most common HTML tags for easy usage.
If you don't want to include all of its dependencies in your build, it's possible to use [flutter_widget_from_html_core](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core) with a subset of the mixins to control your app size:

- [fwfh_cached_network_image](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_cached_network_image) for optimized image rendering
- [fwfh_chewie](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_chewie) for VIDEO support
- [fwfh_just_audio](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_just_audio) for AUDIO support
- [fwfh_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_svg) for SVG support
- [fwfh_url_launcher](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_url_launcher) to launch URLs
- [fwfh_webview](https://pub.dev/packages/fwfh_webview) for IFRAME support

## Getting Started

Add this to your app's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter_widget_from_html: ^0.14.4
```

### Platform specific configuration

#### iOS

This package uses `just_audio` to play audio and this dependency uses a microphone API.
By default, the App Store requires a usage description which can be skipped by editing your `ios/Podfile`.
See the detailed instruction on [its pub.dev page](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio#ios).

If you don't need `AUDIO` tag support (e.g. your HTML never has that tag), it may be better to switch to
the core package and use it with a subset of the mixins. See [Extensibility](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core#extensibility) for more details.

## Usage

Then you have to import the package with:

```dart
import 'package:flutter_widget_from_html/flutter_widget_from_html.dart';
```

And use `HtmlWidget` where appropriate:

```dart
HtmlWidget(
  // the first parameter (`html`) is required
  '''
  <h3>Heading</h3>
  <p>
    A paragraph with <strong>strong</strong>, <em>emphasized</em>
    and <span style="color: red">colored</span> text.
  </p>
  ''',

  // all other parameters are optional, a few notable params:

  // specify custom styling for an element
  // see supported inline styling below
  customStylesBuilder: (element) {
    if (element.classes.contains('foo')) {
      return {'color': 'red'};
    }

    return null;
  },

  customWidgetBuilder: (element) {
    if (element.attributes['foo'] == 'bar') {
      // render a custom block widget that takes the full width
      return FooBarWidget();
    }

    if (element.attributes['fizz'] == 'buzz') {
      // render a custom widget inline with surrounding text
      return InlineCustomWidget(
        child: FizzBuzzWidget(),
      )
    }

    return null;
  },

  // this callback will be triggered when user taps a link
  onTapUrl: (url) => print('tapped $url'),

  // select the render mode for HTML body
  // by default, a simple `Column` is rendered
  // consider using `ListView` or `SliverList` for better performance
  renderMode: RenderMode.column,

  // set the default styling for text
  textStyle: TextStyle(fontSize: 14),
),
```

## Features

### HTML tags

Below tags are the ones that have special meaning / styling, all other tags will be parsed as text.
[Compare between Flutter rendering and browser's.](https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html)

- A: underline, theme accent color
  - Scroll to anchor
  - Launch URL via [url_launcher](https://pub.dev/packages/url_launcher) with base URL resolver
- AUDIO via [just_audio](https://pub.dev/packages/just_audio)
- H1/H2/H3/H4/H5/H6
- IFRAME via [webview_flutter](https://pub.dev/packages/webview_flutter)
- IMG with support for asset (`asset://`), data uri, local file (`file://`) and network image via [cached_network_image](https://pub.dev/packages/cached_network_image). Additional .svg file support via [flutter_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_svg).
- LI/OL/UL with support for:
  - Attributes: `type`, `start`, `reversed`
  - Inline style `list-style-type` values: `lower-alpha`, `upper-alpha`, `lower-latin`, `upper-latin`, `circle`, `decimal`, `disc`, `lower-roman`, `upper-roman`, `square`
- TABLE/CAPTION/THEAD/TBODY/TFOOT/TR/TD/TH with support for:
  - TABLE attributes `border`, `cellpadding`, `cellspacing`
  - TD/TH attributes `colspan`, `rowspan`, `valign`
  - Table is scrollable if columns are too wide
- SVG via [flutter_svg](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_svg)
- VIDEO via [chewie](https://pub.dev/packages/chewie)
- ABBR, ACRONYM, ADDRESS, ARTICLE, ASIDE, B, BIG, BLOCKQUOTE, BR, CENTER, CITE, CODE,
  DD, DEL, DETAILS, DFN, DIV, DL, DT, EM, FIGCAPTION, FIGURE, FONT, FOOTER, HEADER, HR, I, INS,
  KBD, MAIN, MARK, NAV, NOSCRIPT, P, PRE, Q, RP, RT, RUBY, S, SAMP, SECTION, SMALL,
  STRIKE, STRONG, STYLE, SUB, SUMMARY, SUP, TT, U, VAR
- Everything with screenshot: https://demo.fwfh.dev/supported/tags.html
- [Try with fwfh.dev](https://try.fwfh.dev)

These tags and their contents will be ignored:

- SCRIPT
- STYLE

### Attributes

- align: center/end/justify/left/right/start/-moz-center/-webkit-center
- dir: auto/ltr/rtl

### Inline stylings

- background: 1 value (color)
  - background-color
- border: 3 values (width style color), 2 values (width style) or 1 value (width)
  - border-top, border-right, border-bottom, border-left
  - border-block-start, border-block-end
  - border-inline-start, border-inline-end
- border-radius: 4, 3, 2 or 1 values with slash support (e.g. `10px / 20px`)
  - border-top-left-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-top-right-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-bottom-right-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - border-bottom-left-radius: 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
- color: hex values, `rgb()`, `hsl()` or named colors
- direction (similar to `dir` attribute)
- font-family
- font-size: absolute (e.g. `xx-large`), relative (`larger`, `smaller`) or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
- font-style: italic/normal
- font-weight: bold/normal/100..900
- line-height: `normal`, number or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
- margin: 4 values, 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - margin-top, margin-right, margin-bottom, margin-left
  - margin-block-start, margin-block-end
  - margin-inline-start, margin-inline-end
- padding: 4 values, 2 values or 1 value in `em`, `pt` and `px`
  - padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom, padding-left
  - padding-block-start, padding-block-end
  - padding-inline-start, padding-inline-end
- vertical-align: baseline/top/bottom/middle/sub/super
- text-align (similar to `align` attribute)
- text-decoration
  - text-decoration-color
  - text-decoration-line: line-through/none/overline/underline
  - text-decoration-style: dotted/dashed/double/solid
  - text-decoration-thickness, text-decoration-width: values in `%` only
- text-overflow: clip/ellipsis. Note: `text-overflow: ellipsis` should be used in conjuntion with `max-lines` or `-webkit-line-clamp` for better result.
- white-space: pre/normal/nowrap
- Sizing: `auto` or values in `em`, `%`, `pt` and `px`
  - width, max-width, min-width
  - height, max-height, min-height

## Extensibility

The [core](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_widget_from_html_core) package implements widget building logic with high testing coverage to ensure correctness. It tries to render an optimal tree by using `RichText` with specific `TextStyle`, merging text spans together, showing images in sized box, etc. The idea is to build a solid foundation for apps to customize.

See [the extensibility document](https://github.com/daohoangson/flutter_widget_from_html/blob/v0.14.2/docs/extensibility.md) for detailed information.

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/daohoangson" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-orange.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" height="41" width="174"></a>
